NCEP/EMC 4KM Gridded Data (GRIB) Stage IV Data
https://data.eol.ucar.edu/dataset/21.093

Summary
The Stage IV analysis is based on the multi-sensor hourly/6-hourly 'Stage III'
analyses (on local 4km polar-stereographic grids) produced by the 12 River
Forecast Centers (RFCs) in CONUS. NCEP mosaics the Stage III into a national
product (the Stage IV). Hourly, 6-hourly and 24-hourly (accumulated from the
6-hourly) analyses are available. The Stage IV differs from the NCEP Stage II
chiefly in that the NCEP Stage II contains no manual quality control (QC),
while the Stage IV benefits from manual QC performed on the Stage III data at
the RFCs. As of April 2017 this data includes Alaska and Puerto Rico stations.
As of 20 July 2020, data file formats changed from GRIB1 to GRIB2, with
similar name changes (e.g., *.grb2). Starting on 20 July 2020, the GRIB1 files
may not have complete data. Please refer to the GRIB2 files instead.

These data are processed manually monthly, so the date new data are available
varies. The data for each month are received from NCEP/EMC around the second
week of the following month, and generally loaded within a few days of
receipt. If data have not been received by the 20th of the month, then
NCEP/EMC is contacted for an update. Since this is a manual process, dates are
affected by the availability of EOL staff. If data are not available by the
22nd, please contact us for an update. System order size limits are about 3
months of data. If you need to download the entire dataset at once
immediately, please contact us for alternate download arrangements (subject to
EOL staff availability). January 18, 2019: It was noticed that the Alaska and
Puerto Rico stations were not actually included in the dataset as mentioned in
the data description. As of this date, all the data (from April 2017) for the
Alaska and Puerto Rico stations are now included in this dataset. January 15,
2020: Data for 26 September 2019 was added when it was determined that this
date had been omitted. March 26, 2020: Data for 01 January 2020 was added when
it was determined that this date had been omitted. 31 August 2020: Start and
end dates/times on the files were updated. 7 October 2020: As of 20 July 2020,
data file formats changed from GRIB1 to GRIB2, with similar name changes
(e.g., *.grb2). Starting on 20 July 2020, the GRIB1 files may not have
complete data. Please refer to the GRIB2 files instead. 7 October 2020: As of
20 July 2020, file names changed from ST4*.gz to st4_conus*.grb2. Starting on
20 July 2020, if both files exist, please refer to the st4_conus*.grb2 file
for the most complete data. 3 February 2021: Files missing from January 2002,
April 2008, and January 2012 were added. Missing Data: January 28 - 30, 2019 -
some stage 4 data missing April 4, 2019 - all data missing September 26, 2019
- all data missing November 20, 2019 - some stage 2 and some stage 4 missing
November 21, 2019 - some stage 2 missing January 1, 2020 - all stage 4 and
some stage 2 missing March 25, 2020 - AK missing for 00, 06, and 12 hours
August 2021 - AK missing from 8/29 18:00 through 8/31 12:00 November 10, 2021
- AK missing most data

Identifiers
 * Local archive identifier: 21.093
 * doi:10.5065/D6PG1QDD
   https://doi.org/10.5065/D6PG1QDD

Versions
  1.0

Citation
Example citation following ESIP guidelines (http://bit.ly/data_citation):

 Du, J. 2011. NCEP/EMC 4KM Gridded Data (GRIB) Stage IV Data. Version 1.0.
 UCAR/NCAR - Earth Observing Laboratory. https://doi.org/10.5065/D6PG1QDD
 Accessed 14 Jun 2023.

Additional citation styles can be generated by entering the DOI
at CrossCite (https://citation.crosscite.org/).

Acknowledgement
In addition to the citation reference and any other acknowledgements,
please acknowledge NCAR/EOL in your publications with text such as:

  Data provided by NCAR/EOL under the sponsorship of
  the National Science Foundation.
  https://data.eol.ucar.edu/

Related projects
 * MATERHORN-X: Mountain Terrain Atmospheric Modeling and Observations
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/project/MATERHORN-X
 * SNOWIE: Seeded and Natural Orographic Wintertime clouds - the Idaho Experiment
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/project/SNOWIE
 * CHEESEHEAD: Chequamegon Heterogeneous Ecosystem Energy-balance Study Enabled
by a High-density Extensive Array of Detectors
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/project/CHEESEHEAD
 * TORUS_2022: Targeted Observation by Radars and UAS of Supercells 2022
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/project/TORUS_2022
 * Operational: Operational Datasets
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/project/Operational
 * IDEAL: Instabilities, Dynamics and Energetics accompanying Atmospheric
Layering
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/project/IDEAL
 * NAME: North American Monsoon Experiment
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/project/NAME
 * VORTEX-SE_2018: The Verification of the Origins of Rotation in Tornadoes
Experiment Southeast (VORTEX-SE) 2018 Field campaign
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/project/VORTEX-SE_2018
 * TORUS-LItE: Targeted Observation by Radars and UAS of Supercells - Left-flank
Intensive Experiment
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/project/TORUS-LItE
 * VORTEX-SE_2016: Verification of the Origins of Rotation in Tornadoes
EXperiment-Southeast (VORTEX-SE) 2016 Field Campaign
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/project/VORTEX-SE_2016
 * TORUS_2019: Targeted Observation by Radars and UAS of Supercells 2019
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/project/TORUS_2019
 * GCIP/EOP: GCIP Enhanced Observing Period
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/project?GCIP%2FEOP
 * VORTEX-SE_2017: Verification of the Origins of Rotation in Tornadoes
EXperiment-Southeast (VORTEX-SE) 2017 Field Campaign
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/project/VORTEX-SE_2017

Additional information
 * Spatial Type: point
 * Frequency: hourly
 * Language: English

Categories
 * Land Based
 * Precipitation
 * Surface

Platforms
 * Weather Stations

Instruments
 * Doppler Radar
 * NEXt Generation RADar (NEXRAD)
 * Radar
 * Rain Gauges

GCMD Science Keywords
 * EARTH SCIENCE > ATMOSPHERE > PRECIPITATION > PRECIPITATION AMOUNT
 * EARTH SCIENCE > ATMOSPHERE > PRECIPITATION > PRECIPITATION AMOUNT > HOURLY PRECIPITATION AMOUNT

Documentation
 * katz_missing_data.txt [13 KiB]
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/datafile/nph-get/21.093/katz_missing_data.txt
 * katz_stageIV_readme.txt [1 KiB]
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/datafile/nph-get/21.093/katz_stageIV_readme.txt

Related links
 * info: Hourly Precipitation Analysis at NCEP/EMC
   http://www.emc.ncep.noaa.gov/mmb/SREF/pcpanl/
 * info: RDA duplicate archive
   http://rda.ucar.edu/datasets/ds507.5/

Temporal coverage
 * Begin datetime: 2001-12-31 12:00:01 
 * End datetime: 2023-04-30 23:00:00 

Spatial coverage
 * Maximum (North) Latitude: 71.413
 * Minimum (South) Latitude: 17.853
 * Minimum (West) Longitude: -176.836
 * Maximum (East) Longitude: -65.544

Primary contact information
 * pointOfContact: Jun Du <jun.du@noaa.gov>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/2568

Additional contact information
 * author: Jun Du <jun.du@noaa.gov>
   https://data.eol.ucar.edu/contact/show/2568

Alternate metadata formats
 * DataCite: https://data.eol.ucar.edu/dataset/21.093?format=datacite
 * ISO/TC 211: https://data.eol.ucar.edu/dataset/21.093?format=isotc211
